Getting Started with Form (#1485)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: concepts/05 Widgets/Form/01 Getting Started with Form/70 Validate the Form Data.md

DevExtreme includes a validation engine that checks edited values before they are saved. This engine supports different [validation rule types](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/). 

To apply validation rules to a simple item, specify them in the [validationRules[]](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#validationRules) array. You can specify an item's [isRequired](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property to implicitly apply the [RequiredRule](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/RequiredRule/) to it.

An editor is validated when its value changes. To validate all editors simultaneously, call the [validate()](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Methods/#validate) Form method. 

> In the following example, we specify the [isRequired](Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property for the `Name` item. We also specify the **NumericRule** for `officeNumber` and **EmailRule** for `Email` items.

Reviewer: Will be here a screenshot? Or, a link to WG to review how validation is show?

Author: I don't think that it is required here, since the most important part is the internal validation engine but not the appearance. We also give a link to WG in the last section.

DevExtreme includes a validation engine that checks edited values before they are saved. This engine supports different [validation rule types](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/). 

To apply validation rules to a simple item, specify them in the [validationRules[]](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#validationRules) array. You can specify an item's [isRequired](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property to implicitly apply the [RequiredRule](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/RequiredRule/) to it.

> An editor is validated when its value changes. To validate all editors simultaneously, call the [validate()](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Methods/#validate) Form method. 

Reviewer 2: This paragraph breaks the connection between the paragraphs about validation rules. Let's move it down.

> In the following example, we specify the [isRequired](Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property for the `Name` item. We also specify the **NumericRule** for `officeNumber` and **EmailRules** for `Email` items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, we specify the [isRequired](Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property for the `Name` item. We also specify the **NumericRule** for `officeNumber` and **EmailRule** for `Email` items.
```

---
##### jQuery

    <!-- tab: index.js -->
    $(function() {
        $("#form").dxForm({
            formData: {
                // ...
            },
            colCount: 2,
            items: [{
                dataField: "name",

>                 isRequired: "true"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
                isRequired: true
```

> DevExtreme includes a validation engine that checks edited values before they are saved. This engine supports different validation rule types, such as [Email](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/EmailRule/), [Numeric](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/NumericRule/), [Pattern](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/PatternRule/), and more. 

Reviewer: >before they are saved

"saved"? wtf?
processed/submitted/handled?

There are 4 places when values are checked in form: initial show + editor value change + "button{ useSubmitBehavior: true} " + form.validate()

Author: Hmm, when we change an editor's value and then move the focus out, the validation triggers. How can we call this moment?

> DevExtreme includes a validation engine that checks edited values before they are saved. This engine supports different validation rule types, such as [Email](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/EmailRule/), [Numeric](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/NumericRule/), [Pattern](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/PatternRule/), and more. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DevExtreme includes a validation engine that checks edited values before they are saved. This engine supports different [validation rule types](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/). 
```

> 

Reviewer: > and more.

See https://js.devexpress.com/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/ 
Can we add this link?

Author: We have it in the line right below:

>`[validationRules[]](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#validationRules)`

> To apply validation rules to a simple item, specify them in the [validationRules[]](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#validationRules) array. The Form validates an editor when this editor's value changes. To validate all editors simultaneously, call the [validate()](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Methods/#validate) method. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To apply validation rules to a simple item, specify them in the [validationRules[]](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#validationRules) array. An editor is validated when its value changes. To validate all editors simultaneously, call the [validate()](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Methods/#validate) Form method. 
```

> You can specify an item's [isRequired](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property to implicitly apply the [Required Rule](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/RequiredRule/) to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify an item's [isRequired](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property to implicitly apply the [RequiredRule](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/RequiredRule/) to it.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this info belongs in the previous paragraph, after the first sentence.

> You can specify an item's [isRequired](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property to implicitly apply the [Required Rule](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxValidator/Validation_Rules/RequiredRule/) to it. The required items have red asterisk marks.

Reviewer: >The required items have red asterisk marks.

UI may differ or change. Can we remove these details?

Author: I think yes, will remove it.

> In the following example, we specify the [isRequired](Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property for the `Name` item. We also specify the **NumericRule** for `officeNumber` and **EmailRules** for `Email` items. The [showValidationSummary](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Configuration/#showValidationSummary) property is set to **true**.

Reviewer 2: showValidationSummary deserves an individual paragraph. BTW, this property is missing from the code below.

> In the following example, we specify the [isRequired](Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Item_Types/SimpleItem/#isRequired) property for the `Name` item. We also specify the **NumericRule** and **EmailRules** for two other items. The [showValidationSummary](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Widgets/dxForm/Configuration/#showValidationSummary) property is set to **true**.

Reviewer: > **NumericRule** and **EmailRules** for two other items

may be "NumericRule for officeNumber and EmailRules for 'name???'"

email rule:
```
                dataField: "name",
                validationRules: [{
                    type: "email",
                    message: "This is not a valid Email"
                }] 
```

Author: Thanks, good point.

---
##### jQuery

    <!-- tab: index.js -->
    $(function() {
        $("#formContainer").dxForm({
            formData: {
                name: "John Heart",
                position: "CEO",
                hireDate: new Date(2012, 4, 13),
                officeNumber: 901,
                phone: "+1(213) 555-9392",
                skype: "jheart_DX_skype",
                email: "jheart@dx-email.com",
                notes: "John has been in the Audio/Video industry since 1990."

>             },

Reviewer: So many fields to demonstrate 3 rules.
Can we remove some fields?
